Introduction
	A common misconception with competitive Overwatch, a team-based shooter, is that rank is based off of wins and losses. While partially true, the elo system in overwatch is based off of the player’s personal skills rather than bad teammates or misfortunate matches¹. 
	
	Overwatch’s competitive system is based off an elo ranking system¹. Elo ranking gives a numerical value for each player’s skill. When two players go against each other, the difference of the two numbers determine the chances of one player winning. Overwatch uses a numerical value between 1 (lowest skill) and 5000 (highest skill) and it is called skill ranking, or SR for short. For better understanding, SR is split up into categories from bronze to grand masters. Every Overwatch season, players will participate in placement matches. These matches give the player a starting position¹.
	
	Neural networks can predict the category a player should fall into based off of stats¹. Neural networks use multiple algorithms that can recognize patterns. It uses data from a table make its predictions. The number and variety of "hidden layers" can be changed for better accurcy². 
	
	Lance McDiffett performed a similar project which focused on modeling how a players SR would increase or decrease. When a player loses, an amount of their SR will go to the victor. The game deterimends how much based off the difference of both SRs. If the skill ratings are far apart and the person with the lowest SR wins, he would gain a large amount of SR. If this person lost, he would lose very little. He used the logistic function to find possible SR losses/gains depending on both players rankings. He was recommended that a Neural Network could have worked as well¹.
	
	The goal of this project is to predict where a person will be placed after their placement matches. At least 85% accuracy is expected out of the neural network by the end of this project. For simplicity, the character “Mercy” will be used for she is an easy character to define. Depending on the success of this project, it will properly get expanded to use any character.
	
	To start this project, stats were collected from “Mercy mains” (people who play primarily Mercy) from three diffenft skill levels - gold and under, platinum to diamond, and masters and above. This same data set is randomized and put through the neural network and the accuracy is recorded. Different amounts of nodes are experimented with to find the greatest result.

Procedure
	The environment was created in Python 3.7.3. Stats were first gathered from Overwatch players who play Mercy. These player had to have mercy as their top three most players, and also play in this season's or last season's composite mode. Stats were gathered from Overbuff.com and random players. Using Pandas version 0.25.3, the data is printed intos graph for better understanding.
	
	The data is normalized by add (ask Dr. Waddel). This is only done to damage and healing stats. To test how accurate the neural network is, the data shuffles with the random seed “0”. Only one hidden layer is used. To find the best amount of nodes, one to thirty nodes were tested. The code prints a percent of how accurate the process is. 

Results
	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GbuOM7VU42T9FeL-yCLW3Ew2lhDqdnMiDakFjnm03Fs/edit

Conclusion
	Overwatch is a composite game that uses an Elo system to balance the game. To find the starting possible starting possible position, player stats were looked at. Neural networks can look at player data and make predictions on where they could get place. 
	
	The project environment is created in Python 3.3.7 and stats were gathered from Overbuff.com and other players. While using one hidden layer, a test is performed to find the best amount of nodes. 
	
	For the best accuracy, twenty six nodes in one hidden layer is recommended. Twenty six nodes gives the highest accuracy for the data set and for the small data set. With the data set used, 87% was the accuracy.

	The project’s goal has achieved with 87% accuracy. This can show that overwatch placements could be proven through a player’s stats. 

	The project can be further expanded through the use of more stats. While I was looking at higher tier mercy mains, I saw that a fair amount of them had surprising high amounts of kills; up to 4 to 7 kills average. So if this project ever gets continued, all stats available should be used. 

Works Cited
	1) McDiffett, Lance. “The Math Behind Your Competitive Overwatch Match.” Medium. Towards Data Science, November 10, 2018. https://towardsdatascience.com/the-math-behind-your-competitive-overwatch-match-a5184fc5a50f.
	
	2) Nicholson, Chris. “A Beginner's Guide to Neural Networks and Deep Learning.” Pathmind. Accessed December 13, 2019. https://pathmind.com/wiki/neural-network.

	3)“Elo Rating System.” Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, November 24, 2019. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elo_rating_system.






